Yes, true friends who share
our love for Jehovah are invaluable.
We’ll see that in this story from Japan.
Sisters Takako Sato and Hisako Wakui
have worked together as pioneers since 1957.
Let’s learn how their friendship
has helped them serve Jehovah with joy.
We are pioneer partners.
We’ve been working together
for over 60 years.
In 1956,
I was the only Jehovah’s Witness
in Nagano prefecture.
It was lonesome,
but I applied for regular pioneer service.
Surprisingly,
I was appointed
as a special pioneer.
I was so happy that I found myself
rolling around on the tatami-mat floor
with the appointment letter in my hand.
That was the way
I expressed my joy and appreciation.
When I was invited to serve
as a special pioneer,
I was sent to Nagano,
and that’s where I met Hisako.
Takako and I focused on our ministry.
When an isolated group was established,
since there were no brothers,
I would wear a head covering
and conduct the meetings.
Sometimes the outlines were in English.
We didn’t understand anything.
But people were delighted to hear
even just the scriptures and went home satisfied,
and that strongly impressed on me
the power of God’s Word.
We were assigned
to a territory in the city after that.
We found so many not-at-homes,
but we were determined to meet people.
So we changed the times we preached,
and we talked to people on the street
who were going to work.
We cherished even small opportunities.
When we had a chance to meet a householder,
we always tried to have a conversation
that we could link to the next visit.
Before long, I had ten Bible studies.
Takako acts like she’s cheerful,
but she’s been fighting various illnesses.
At times, it was so bad
that I could not even go out in service.
I had a serious skin condition.
I could not bear
to look at the illustration of Job in the magazine,
and I covered it up with paper.
But Jehovah helped me
to look to Job’s example.
I learned
that our endurance under trial
would become praise to God.
I have often had health problems.
Just at one of those times,
I received a letter from the branch.
It said:
“What you
can accomplish now may be limited.
“However, think
about all that you have done up to now
“to give praise to Jehovah
“and about the people
you were able to help learn the truth,
and be joyful knowing
that you have been used by Jehovah fully.”
I couldn’t stop crying
because I really felt the care and concern
from the organization and from Jehovah.
Hisako also
took really good care of me
and prayed with me.
Our thinking and personalities are different,
but we made efforts to talk things out.
Our heartfelt desire
to want to serve Jehovah full-time
has always been the same.
For 60 years, we’ve enjoyed
a truly wonderful life of service to Jehovah.
Jehovah has supported us in difficult times
through the Bible, the organization, and friends.
I have tasted the truthfulness of the words:
“When I am weak, then I am powerful.”
‘When I said: “My foot is slipping,”
your kindness, O Jehovah, has supported me.’
I can say that too.
Although we don’t have energy or ability,
we’ve been able to enjoy
full-time service together up until now.
I’m really content now.
It’s all thanks to Jehovah.
Like the apostle Paul,
our sisters cultivated singleness
and focused on full-time service to Jehovah
for more than 60 years.
Yes, they face everyday challenges
and the extra ones that come with age,
but their heartfelt desire
to serve Jehovah whole-souled
brings Takako and Hisako
real joy and contentment.